As I'm sure you are aware,
you have final exams starting next month.
You are aware, right?
So, and I think you know what I'm getting at,
if you fail any subjects...
Supplementary classes will be held on weekends.
If necessary, they will be held during summer break as well.
Going to the away games would be physically impossible.
Hey! There's nowhere to run!
Ennoshita, grab them!
Got it!
Fail... Fail...
What counts as a failing grade?
That's your question?!
Kageyama isn't breathing!
Since we said we're going to stay on the team,
we have to at least make decent grades.
You shouldn't fail your finals.
Nope.
M-Maybe if we beg the vice principal as hard as we can...
You should try as hard as you can to not fail your finals instead.
Even if we get the vice principal's permission,
if any of you have to take supplementary classes,
those will take priority.
Coach!
W-Well, this isn't something you're gonna be able to avoid as a student.
But...
Don't give up! You need to believe you can do it!
Mind over matter?!
No, that's fine.
Please teach me!
Hinata, I didn't really want to bring this up,
but do I look like someone who got good grades?
Hinata, I'm sure you don't have to worry this much about it.
I've never gotten a double-digit score on any of my quizzes.
Will I still be okay?
Huh?
Hey! Praying isn't going to help, you two!
They can do it if they try. They can do it if they try.
Pull yourself together, Mr. Takeda!
Ah, the sound of anguish.
Get a hold of yourselves!
We still have time until finals.
There's no way we can play our best without these four idiots!
Not a chance!
I don't know if I'm flattered or insulted...
We're gonna do this.
We're all gonna go to Tokyo.
I keep running as I run out of breath
With dreams on my mind and a fire in my belly
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
I feel like I'll be left behind in this world
If I come to a standstill
People ask me why I find joy in this
But I don't understand it myself
Running is the only thing on my mind
Even if nothing goes right in the future
I won't stop trying to find the best version of myself
Even if someone tells me that this is as far as I go
And draws the line on me
I'll say no, thank you, and surge on ahead
So what?
Whatever the future may bring
However people are supposed to act
So what?
It doesn't really matter
So I'm a believer
Episode Two:
Direct Sunlight
Listen up, you guys.
The one thing that you're going to promise me right now...
is that you will not fall asleep in class.
That's top priority?
Staying up late through sheer willpower.
Screwing up in your classes and in practice.
It's all completely absurd!
Right...
We're heading out.
R-Right. Good job.
It'll be all right.
I mean, you guys passed your high school entrance exams.
Suga!
If you fall asleep in class, you'd better be prepared for the consequences.
Kageyama.
What? No way!
You have no right to be picky!
If we fail our finals, we can't go on the trip!
We're playing Nekoma!
And all the powerhouses in Tokyo are gonna be there!
You're okay with not being able to go?!
You told Ushiwaka that you'd become the best setter!
Foot of the Slope
I'm actually surprised that Kageyama's grades are bad.
He seems pretty smart.
Hinata's grades don't surprise me at all, though.
I'm sure all that's in his head is volleyball.
Tsukishima!
Sir.
Help us study...
Please.
What? No.
Just, like, an hour each day!
Or maybe tell us how to study...
I think it'd be all right if you did a little bit before and after practice.
Hey, isn't it unfair for you to make the little one do all the begging?
I'm talking to you, big guy.
Kageyama, ask him!
Please teach us.
What was that?
Please teach us how to study.
I don't think I quite heard you.
Studying!
I'm asking you to teach us how, goddammit!
Shut the hell up! You're disturbing the neighborhood!
S-Sorry!
Why am I getting yelled at?
Sorry.
It's okay. Thank you, though.
Shimizu!
I found some people in other classes that haven't joined a club yet.
Thanks!
Yes, no!
"Yes, no"?
She smiled!
U-Um, doing all of the manager's duties by yourself must be hard, right?
If there's anything a first-year can do, I'd be happy to help.
We're going to the Spring Tournament!
We third-years are going to be
gone after the next tournament.
Watching all of you get better,
it made me reconsider what'll happen next year and the year after that.
I still have things I need to do.
I-I'll gladly help!
Thanks, but you should focus on studying.
That and practice, of course.
Everyone's looking forward to the greatest decoy.
Right!
All right, let's move on to the next one.
Hinata, what's the first answer to question 6?
For this, you do this to get this.
Question six: Please insert the correct word or phrase that goes in the parentheses to correctly complete the idiom.
This idiom expresses that even ruthless people can show compassion or even cry at times.
Even ogres can be moved to...
...an iron club?
That's gotta hurt!
Hey, how could you do that to the ogre?
You're thinking of another idiom.
Did you not read the explanation?
Oh, shut up.
You probably saw the word "ogre," didn't read the rest, and just wrote the first thing that came to mind.
You really are a simpleton.
Yeah. You need to calm down.
You're too careless.
Do you all have to comment on it?!
You're one to talk, Kageyama!
Aren't you even worse off than Hinata overall?
You should at least memorize
English vocabulary by yourself.
Why would Japanese people
be able to understand English?
Then you should give up on going to Tokyo.
Kageyama.
B Quick.
A, C, delayed attack in front of the setter,
left-side back row attack,
D, parallel, semi, delayed attack behind the setter.
Man, that's fast.
How long did it take you to memorize those?
I think it was the same day we were taught them?
Then I won't let you use "I can't
memorize the words" as an excuse.
C-Crap.
I-I'm not gonna lose to you, Kageyama!
All right. Let's go to my place after practice on Saturday.
Sounds good.
I'm not gonna lose to them, either!
Like I said, you really need to calm down.
Nishinoya, let me see your quiz from yesterday.
Snacks!
For Japanese, the answer is basically found somewhere within the problem text.
So if you read the passage carefully...
Question 3: Copy the sentence from the passage that most exemplifies the two contradictory feelings Norio has.
Live more like a man, Norio!
The problem says you have to copy a sentence from the passage!
Don't ignore both the problem and Norio!
You're so awesome, Noya.
You're good at memorization, aren't you, Nishinoya?
m 352.5 282 l 369 285 378 288 387 291 400.5 294 426 292.5 438 291 450 288 456 289.5 465 291 477 289.5 489 288 499.5 283.5 501 255 498 231 496.5 210 496.5 183 498 157.5 499.5 130.5 501 114 505.5 115.5 507 132 517.5 133.5 532.5 133.5 549 127.5 558 121.5 558 112.5 546 87 534 64.5 526.5 45 513 37.5 498 34.5 480 28.5 466.5 22.5 459 19.5 450 22.5 435 25.5 415.5 25.5 406.5 24 396 22.5 384 27 369 33 351 39 340.5 40.5 331.5 46.5 322.5 63 309 91.5 294 115.5 303 124.5 313.5 132 325.5 138 336 139.5 342 139.5 348 130.5 354 117 355.5 127.5 358.5 150 360 177 360 217.5 360 246 352.5 273
E
Leave the four-character idioms to me!
Head
stand
That won't be on the exam!
Ugh, are you guys actually studying?
Are you feeling okay?
What'd you mean by that?
Saeko! Hey there!
Hey, Yuu! You're looking cool, as always.
Thanks!
P-Pardon the intrusion.
You're totally fine.
Hey, how about your big sister teaching you something, punk?
Shut up!
You're just as dumb as me, so there's no point.
Hey, I got into college on my first try, you know.
You only go to your job and practice!
Sh-Shut up! I'm just working hard when you aren't watching!
Tanaka's sister is so cool.
Yeah.
Don't come crying to me later!
Practice? What kind?
Taiko drums.
She's getting a team together.
When it's festival time, she goes all-out.
Wow. How cool.
Viva chest wraps!
All right, let's do this.
You're going to Tokyo, aren't you?
Yes, Mr. Ennoshita!
Sender: Hinata Shouyou
Tomorrow!
Tokyo's starting their interhigh prelims
tomorrow, right?! Do your best!
Tokyo's starting their interhigh prelims tomorrow, right?!
Do your best!
Yeah, gradually...
You guys are coming to Tokyo, right?
Let's play jump rope, Bro!
Nacchan, your brother's said he's gonna study!
Aw...
We're totally going! We're gonna win this time, just you wait!
All right! I'm gonna go to Tokyo!
Sending
Shouyou, be quiet!
Faculty Office
Goodness, Tanaka from class 1...
Not only is he not sleeping in class anymore, he's been asking questions after class.
Same with Nishinoya from class 3!
Looks like they can do it if they try.
Maybe the Tokyo away games are becoming a reality.
That just leaves Shimizu's part.
I wonder if it's going well.
Hey, do you have a moment?
Karasuno High School Boys' Volleyball Team
Seeking Members
& Manager!
Canvassing for a new manager...
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
Wow... She's so pretty.
In the interhigh preliminaries recently, we were dead
even against Aoba Jousai, a team that went to the finals.
So, she's a third-year.
She's so pretty.
The mole by her mouth is sexy.
So pretty.
Though we do have quite a few troublemakers, I'm sure you'll find that they're a team you want to root for.
Her hair is silky-smooth.
Everyone's totally staring at her too.
Why don't we try a trial membership?
Huh?! Sure!
Really?! Thank you so much!
I'll come by again after school.
So you found a new person!
What's up?
What's going on?
Um, she's joining the team on a trial basis as the new manager.
I-I'm Yachi Hitoka!
Seriously? That's awesome!
Nice job, Shimizu!
So cute...
You're a first-year?
I-I'm in Class 1-5, sir!
"Sir"?
Asahi, back up a bit.
Huh?
Hey!
Don't stare like that! It's rude.
Thank goodness.
Now there'll be a manager next year too.
Yes!
Sh-She hasn't actually joined yet.
I suddenly asked her to come by
today before her committee meeting,
so she's just dropping in to say hi.
I-It's a pleasure to meet you!
Same!
Could you not surround her like that until she's more comfortable?
S-Sorry for the intrusion.
Shimizu.
So you were looking for a new manager, huh?
Yes.
I thought we didn't get enough responses when we tried to find people in April.
I thought it was important to find someone to carry on as manager,
especially with Karasuno getting so much stronger.
Shimizu!
Huh?
Kiyoko!
I just came on a whim, but there were so many giant guys!
What am I going to do tomorrow?
I stood next to that pretty lady for like two minutes!
What if her fans try to kill me?!
What's the matter?
Blond hair and pierced ears!
Even a guy like this is a fan of hers?!
I-I'm going to be murdered!
What? Murdered...
I'm starving.
Class 1-4
Let's go to Foot of the Slope!
Didn't we agree it was going to be
only right before and after practice?
Right?
But the English teacher, Mr. Yoshida, wasn't around—
Please come back during business hours.
Class 1-4
Damn it, Tsukishima's so stingy.
Stingyshima!
I have to do something...
Hinata!
You're gonna teach me, Yamaguchi?
Sorry, I suck at English.
Remember the potential manager who came yesterday?
She said she was in class 5,
so she might be good at studying.
That's right. Classes 4 and 5 are the advanced classes.
What should I do after school?
The volleyball team, huh?
Yachi!
Pardon us.
Huh? What? Some guys from the volleyball team?
What should I do? What do they want?
Did they introduce themselves to me yet?
Their names... What were their names again?
How could I have forgotten them already?
You can't even remember names?!
I won't be able to make it in society and lose my job...
I'll be out cold in the streets..
And in the end sell off my internal organs!
I'm Hinata Shouyou from class 1!
This is Kageyama.
Hey.
H-Hey.
Yachi, do you like studying?
I don't hate it.
Could you teach me this English?
You should ask her too, Kageyama!
Please teach us.
If we fail any tests next month,
we won't be able to go to the Tokyo away games!
So we've been getting tutored by a tall guy with glasses named Tsukishima...
Why can't you do this?
But he's been getting mad lately because Kageyama and I are too stupid for him.
He doesn't scare me.
But it'd be better if someone nice taught us, right?
I-If you think I'm good enough...
Really?!
Yeah.
But I'm not sure if I can be nicer than the tall guy with glasses.
You definitely don't have to worry about that.
Wow!
I see! Wow!
Oh, it's nothing...
Your notes are really easy to read, Yachi! And you draw really well too!
My mom works at a design firm,
so she's always been picky about things like this.
Oh, if you leave a space here, it'll be easier to fill in later.
Also, if you use only a few colors, it won't get confusing.
And...
I'm sorry! I was writing all over your notebook!
Oh, I see... You're amazing!
I-It's nothing... Nothing at all...
So, Hinata Shouyou...
Just Hinata's fine.
D-Do you not like studying, Hinata?
I hate it.
Sitting for a long time like this sucks.
But aren't you working hard so that you can go on this trip to Tokyo?
Yeah! We're gonna have practice matches
with all the powerhouse schools from Tokyo!
That's amazing.
I've never been that serious about anything before.
There's this school called Nekoma High School in Tokyo, and the setter for their team is super-smart.
The captain with the rooster head is,
like, huge and evil-looking.
And there's a guy that's totally awesome at digging out one receive after another like "foom"!
Nekoma's libero is awesome.
He's on par with Nishinoya.
Setter?
There are a lot of amazing guys!
Rooster head? Libero?
Not just in Tokyo, but even in our prefecture.
Are these positions?
There's the Great King over at Aoba Jousai,
Ushiwaka, who people call the greatest of all time,
and Date Tech's Iron Wall that's 190 cm tall!
190 centimeters?!
Um... Hinata, are you a manager too?
Why?
I thought only tall people played volleyball,
and the team was full of tall guys.
I may be short, b-but I'm a starter!
Oh my god! I can't believe I judged someone by their appearance!
I'm so sorry!
It's okay. I'm used to it.
Even if I'm not tall,
I can fly!
Hinata, don't you need to copy this down?
Oh, yeah.
Everyone's so tall and looks really intimidating,
but when we play them,
I feel like I can really take them on.
It's exciting and nerve-racking.
It's amazing that you can stand toe-to-toe with them.
That makes you a Little Giant, Hinata.
Huh?!
What?!
You know who the Little Giant is?
Huh?
Uh, no. Um...
When there's a Japanese person performing well among all the tall foreigners, aren't they all called that?
Oh, right.
Yeah.
I'm gonna be the Little Giant.
Hey, Little Giant who's not gonna make it to Tokyo at this rate, hurry up and copy this.
Class 1-5
Will you help us study again?
Sure. Teaching you guys helps
me remember the material too.
Thanks! Thank you, Yachi!
Oh, no, it's nothing...
See you at practice!
What is this?
I feel like I've been left out in direct sunlight for a while.
Yachi!
Stuff you taught me showed up in the English quiz this afternoon!
I got a whole third of them right!
Wahoo!
That's amazing, Hinata Shouyou!
Hinata's so sociable.
I said just Hinata is fine!
That's amazing, Hinata!
They're already buddies.
You'll just be observing today.
You don't have to be nervous.
Wight!
"Wight"?
Oh, and be careful of stray balls flying at you.
Right!
Stray balls flying at me?
Could it be someone's trying to kill me?
Hey, are you okay?
Th-The scary guy from yesterday!
He's gonna kill me!
Um, I'm actually the coach...
Oh my god! I judged someone by their appearance again!
I'm so sorry!
Left!
All right!
Nice, Tanaka!
Close the gaps in your block!
Yes, sir!
Next!
I'm sorry!
I can't hear you guys!
Left!
Two blockers!
Nice job, Hinata!
Sorry!
Are you okay?
Uh, yes.
This is my first time seeing volleyball up and close outside of PE class.
It's pretty amazing.
I think our team's offense is among the best in the prefecture.
Sorry!
Kiyoko's talking! She's smiling! Her lips are moving!
So that's what two girls talking looks like.
Stop goofing off, damn it!
Come on, next round!
Karasuno was actually good enough to go to nationals before.
Yes, sir...
Nationals?
But in the last few years, people have called us "the fallen champs" or "the clipped crows."
This time, we're going to appear
on the national stage.
That's amazing...
So amazing!
Totally different from me.
Gather 'round!
So, this is rather sudden,
but Ougi West High School requested a
practice match tomorrow, and I accepted.
They saw us at the interhigh prelims and insisted.
Don't forget the regret and bitterness of losing to Seijou.
However,
you don't need to hold onto the feeling of losing.
Hurry up and wipe that away!
Yeah!
Is Ougi West good?
It doesn't matter who we're facing.
All right. Let's do this!
We climb the mountain in our way
Losing more than just time in the process
Tasting freedom makes us want to fly
And notice the feelings welling up inside
It's almost in our reach
The closer we get, the more it shines
And stretches out in front of our eyes
That panorama created just for us
Until I reach the top and come back down, my lungs will keep breathing
But now I've been possessed by the desire to climb that summit once again
We cast aside all our doubt and set flight to the skies
Our flailing hands reach out and grab hold of the moment
That special moment
Come to us climbers
Come to us right now
Every since that new girl came,
Kiyoko seems to have a different air about her.
Yeah! It must've been hard to talk, surrounded by all us guys!
From now on, we need to work on our feminine side, Noyacchi!
You got it, Ryuu-Ryuu!
If you talk like that, I'm never speaking to you.
Episode Three:
"Townsperson B"
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"'Townsperson B.'"